---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9 Semester 2"
date:   2022-04-29 11:23:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

# Blog 9 Semester 2
## Managing Who's On Your Network with Evil Limiter

Requirements:
- Linux OS
- Python 3

Evil Limiter is a program used for Linux that allows you to view who is accessing your network. Rather it be a roommate, guests, your cheap neighbors, or anyone else. 
This program also lets you edit who is allowed on it. In addition to who is allowed on it, you can limit the speed for each device. 
This can make the person operating the device fustrated and simply leave the network.
This can be a great tool for working at home. Say you are on a video call, it can be stressful sharing the internet with your household with potential drops in connections. 
With Evil Limiter, you don't have to worry about your kids streaming movies, or playing games as you can limit them. 
Evil Limiter uses ARP spoofing rather than using the router so your speeds aren't affected. 
As of now, Evil Limited does not support IPv6. 
You should only run this if you are the owner of the network or have consent from the owner.
If not, this can be seen as a Denial of Service Attack which is prohibited by law.


Getting Started:

1. $  git clone https://github.com/bitbrute/evillimiter.git
2. $ cd evillimiter
3. $ sudo python3 setup.py install


Now you have everything needed. Now time to run it!

4. $ sudo evillimiter


The program should be able to get your basic information including your default gateway IP/Mac address, interface, and netmask. 
You can type the question mark to get the list of commands. You will see this:

(Main) >>> ?

scan:                          scans for online hosts on your network.
                              required to find the hosts you want to limit.

hosts:                         lists all scanned hosts.
                              contains host information, including IDs.

limit [ID1,ID2,...] [rate]:    limits bandwith of host(s) (uload/dload).
                              e.g.: limit 4 100kbit
                                    limit 2,3,4 1gbit
                                    limit all 200kbit

block [ID1,ID2,...]:           blocks internet access of host(s).
                              e.g.: block 3,2
                                    block all

free [ID1,ID2,...]:            unlimits/unblocks host(s).
                              e.g.: free 3
                                    free all

add [IP] (--mac [MAC]):        adds custom host to host list.
                              mac resolved automatically.
                              e.g.: add 192.168.178.24
                                    add 192.168.1.50 --mac 1c:fc:bc:2d:a6:37

clear:                         clears the terminal window.

---
To get started, I recommend typing the hosts command. You will see a table of all device connected which can give you a nice starting point. 
Happy Coding!
