---
layout: post
title: "Blog 9"
date: 2020-11-05 21:03:43 -0700
categories: docker
---
Today I will be talking about how to dual boot an operating system while primarily using Windows 10. This differs from having a virtual machine because it is a part of your computer and more of a permanent solution to add another operating system. People will usually have two different operating systems although it is possible to include the same OS in both iterations. For this example, I will be talking about installing Ubuntu Linux on a Windows machine. 


Note! you will need: 
1. Preferred OS software ISO (ubuntu in this case)
2. Software to create a bootable USB (ex: rufus, UNetbootin, Universal USB installer, etc.)
3. n empty USB


Steps:
1.	Once you have installed your preferred program to create a bootable USB you can begin formatting the USB you have. Please note that the USB must be empty as it will erase any data already stored inside. Open the bootable USB software such as rufus and select the name of the USB you wish to use. After you select you can click the button to allow it to be formatted.
2.	After it is formatted you can add the OS inside the USB. Using the same program (rufus or your preferred choice), find the option that says *boot selection*. Click on this and find your operating system’s ISO file wherever you have stored it and open it.
3.	Other settings you should set it to is to have the partition scheme set at *MBR* and target system to be set to *BIOS or UEFI*. Then press *START*! Give it time to load.
4.	Next you will go to disk manager and create a partition for your new operating system. You can either go to it through the search bar or go to the command prompt and type “diskmgmt.msc”. Once you are in your task manager you will see any connected drives. You can use any drive you desire but most people will use their C drive. Click on it and add the amount of space you wish to have. It is important to adjust accordingly as operating systems will require a certain amount of space to be set up. Then click shrink. It should say unallocated. 
5.	Next you must restart your computer. Once it is starting you should click F10 to go into the BIOS. Note that some computers have different BIOS but should be similar. Select the boot device in which you ISO image is located. You may have to select the operating system (Ubuntu, Kali Linux, Windows Server, etc), or it should set up automatically.
6.	Allow it to load and you begin the set-up process. After the set up is complete, you should no longer need the USB you originally had the OS in. And the dual boot should be successful.


Lastly to note, you may want to reenter the BIOS to change the boot order. Also, when you start your computer, it will give you on which OS to boot. The one that is preferred will start automatically if not selected after 30 seconds. That is it! Enjoy!


