---
layout: post
title: "Blog 12"
date: 2020-12-02 09:15:43 -0700
categories: docker
---
# Blog 12 Google Maps API

Having a map on your company's or application's page has become super popular as it can be used to find an address, track shipping, delivery, or give relevant information to where you currently are. 
While there are other options on the market, Google maps have become on of the, if not the most popular option to use.
Today I will be talking about how to get started on using the Google Maps API and how to implement it into your webpage. 

**NOTE: This tutorial will mainly be covering the JavaScript API which will be put into an HTML file**

Now adding Google maps onto your webpage is not as simple as adding other Google products such as a YouTube video which really only require one line of code. 
Now the main line of code you will need to implement your Google maps API is this:
> <script defer src="https://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?key=YOUR_API_KEY&callback=initMap" </script>

While at first this may seem like a simple line, you will see part of the code says *YOUR_API_KEY*.
This is because you will need to generate your own key and have proper permission.
To start off, you will need to create a gmail account and find Google's *Project Selectors Page*.
You will have to set up billing information as you will pay depending on how much times you use it.
New accounts, however, may be given free credit to use. 
After you set up billing you can create a new project. 
You will then go to the credentials page and create an API key which will be associated with the project. 
Once you have done will be given a key which you can input into the section of code presented earlier. 
You are not done yet as this piece of code is only creating a callback. You will have to create a fuction using that callback called *InItMap*.
The other two required information is the the *center* and the *zoom*. 
The *center* is where you enter the coordinates where you want your map to focus. This is mainly used to locate the subject rather than a street address.
The *zoom* is where you state how close you wanted the map focused on a subject. 
For example, if you want to see the entire state of California you should have a low number zoom. If you want to focus on the building of your business, you should have a high zoom (about 15).
After this you should see you map on your webpage!
There are other features such as styling maps, drop pins, pan/zooming, and much more features that you should look at to meet your needs! 
Happy Coding!
