---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-18 09:14:25 -0700
categories: github update
---

Hi, today I will be talking about what happened throughout week 4. For this class, CIT 480, I mainly focused on docker throughout the week. Docker is a great program for developers that basically deals with virtualization to create containers. I have perviously worked with docker earlier in college. I believe it was CIT 160 and CIT 210. However, since thenI have not used it and sadly did not have it on my laptop. While I have used bash and other shells since then, I mainly used them on either Windows PowerShell or Ubuntu. I tried to download Docker Desktop but I ran into issues. This was since my laptop has Windows 10 Home. If I wish to use Docker Desktop, I would have to upgrade to Windows Pro, Enterprise, or Education which would put me in a rough spot finacially. However, I did recall this issue back in CIT 160 so I did some research. I would instead have to download Docker Toolbox, which is a legacy version and does not have all of Dockers features, but the main ones that I would require. I got to downloading that, but the issues did not end there. When I opened it, it stated there was an issue with Hyper-V. Virtualization was turned on, but Hyper-V is a feature in Windows that is not present in the Home verison. I thought this was strange since this verison of Docker should not require it. I had to delete it and redownload it several times. After a while, it started normally. While I was unable to find the exact reason for this error, I was glad that I was able to use Docker. This week we also started to learn about AWS and its basics. While the class ran into issues on how we would use it, I look forward to learning more. I also look forward to reunting with Docker and can't wait for more exciting tasks!
