---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5 Semester 2"
date:   2022-04-02 20:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

# Blog 5
## HTTPie

Today I will be talking about how and why you may want to use a program called HTTPie.
Now what is HTTPie? HTTPie is a HTTP client that is accessible using a command line. It is meant for debugging, testing, and interacting with HTTP servers.
This is because you can see details in the request and responses of a website. 
One command that is similar and the biggest rival is cURL and Wget. 
However, HTTPie differentiates itself as it is said to be more user friendly and have more JSON support. Perfect for the world of APIs!

[How to Install HTTPie](https://httpie.io/docs#installation)

Now time to go over some commands:


$ http httpie.org

Here is the most basic command to use where you are invoking the "http" command to access the server of the site called upon. In this case, the httpie website.
Note that the websites are just examples but you can look up what ever website you would like. This command will return the header as well as other server information. 


$ http GET httpie.org

Here we can be seen using the GET method in order to recieve information and resources from a particular server. You also have the option to add parameters to better suite your need. 
Most people would find it helpful to add more to the header to get more information.


$ http POST sample.com title=foo body=bar userId:=4

You are also able to update data using the POST method. A payload can be delivered using JSON format. One thing to not is that non-string parameters are formatted as Parm:=value.
You can also embed the JSON into a file simply by typing the name of that file in the command. 

$ http PUT sample.com data=@data.txt

Using the PUT method can be a great way to update existing data in the server. 


$ http DELETE sample.com

Using the delete method can be used to delete data on the https server. 


These were some of the more basic commands but if you wish to learn more, I encoruage you to check out the documentation. 
[Docs](https://httpie.io/docs)
