---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5"
date:   2020-10-08 05:50:25 -0700
categories: github update
---

During this past week, I did my first docker file creation for the first time in years. The last time I created one was during my sophomore-level classes in my CIT major. However, this was a great refresher. A docker file is the writing of a script in Docker that holds a series of commands to do a specific action. This can be useful in many scenarios. Mainly you do a large sequence of actions over the course of many occasions. If you are only doing something once, then there might not be a need. However, if you are contently doing to the same tedious task you can write the script for the Docker file once and then run it whenever you would like. First, you would write it like you would with any document. Use your favorite text editor such as vim or nano. When titling it, you want to ensure that it is titled “Dockerfile” with no extension otherwise it will not work. Then you will want to pull from an existing operating system that is Linux. For my example, I used Ubuntu 18.04. You can also run the most recent one as well. You can also run it from scratch which is docker’s most minimal image. Unlike when normally operating in the terminal, you must have a starting string to activate a command. FROM creates a layer from an existing operating system Docker image. COPY, will use files that are in your current directory. RUN construct your application with make. Lastly, CMD is to tell what command to run within the desired container. Then once you add everything you want you can run the Dockerfile with “docker build -t .” You can also give it a name and a tag by changing it to “docker build -t myimage:latest.” One you run in the output it will go in order and give you steps to where it is. It will notify you if there are any errors. That is the basics of creating and running a Dockerfile! 
