---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3 Semester 2"
date:   2022-03-11 20:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

**Blog 3 Semester 2**
# How to Scan a Website Using Vega
Today I will be talking about how to scan how safe and reliable a website or link is using a tool called Vega.
There are multiple ways to install and use this but I will be talking about how to install this via Linux. 
One thing to note is that it comes preinstalled in most version of Kali Linux, so no need to install if you are using that version of Linux.

You will need to install the libwebkit, the java development kit, and unzip. You can do that all by typing this command:
'sudo apt install libwebkitgtk-1.0 default-jdk unzip'

Next you will need to go to the software's website which can be found here: [Vega's Website](https://subgraph.com/vega/download/)

Click on the download button.
Copy the link for Linux 64bit.
In your terminal, type "wget" followed by the link and press enter. You should then download the zip file.
You should then do a "ls" to find the name of the zip file and unzip it. 

To run it you can simple type the command:
'sudo ./Vega'

A GUI program should open up.
If an error occurs, ensure you are running the correct version of java. 

You can check and change the version you are running by typing the command"
'sudo update alternatives --config java'

You can click scan at the top and then insert the link of the website you wish to scan. 
After you insert your website it will ask which modules you will want to run. For most people, the default option should be fine but feel free to edit. Click next.
You can configure cookies on the next page. 
Next you can edit parameters. Then click finish when you are ready. Once finish it will show a scan alert summary where it will highlight what it found. 
This can be a great tool for website admin and users who wish to test the saftey of site. 

## Happy Coding!

