---
layout: post
title: "Blog 8"
date: 2020-10-30 20:03:43 -0700
categories: docker
---

Today, I will be discussing how to set up a virtual machine using VirtualBox. 
Before I explain how to set up a virtual machine, I must discuss the basics of what it is and why you may want to use it. 
A Virtual Box is a hypervisor which is software that allows virtual machines to be created. 
Now, a virtual machine basically allows a piece of software (in this case an operating system) to be set up on top of another operating system.
Now, while other options to set up multiple Operating Systems on one computer such as dual boot exists, This option really provides a useful, easily to delete/manage alternative compared to dual boot.
VirtualBox is open source software, created by Oracle. This makes it easy to download and use by anyone. Other hypervisors are out there, but this is among one of the most popular options.

Steps:
1. Once you download and set up virtualbox, you are ready to create virtual machines. The first thing you may want to do it decide what operating system you wish to set up first.
You may want to keep in mind that some operating systems must be purchased or may not be available to download. 

2. Once you find a suitable option you can find a ISO file of the opertating system on it's website. It is important you download it as an ISO to allow it to create the virtual machine. 
For this example I will use Linux Ubuntu to describe the set up process. Please note, this example also is used on VirtalBox version 6.1. On VirtualBox, you can find an option at the top left that says *New*. Click this option.

3. You will be asked to give a name, a location, and type of operating system. The name can be anything. The type should be specific to what you wish to install. For this example select Linux, then Ubuntu.

4. You will then select the amount of RAM/memory to give the machine. It can be as powerful or weak as you see fit.

5. You will then create a hard disk and its type.

6. After that, you will be asked to create storage for the OS. You can pick from *fixed* as in a predetermined amount, or *dynamic* which it grows and will only take up more storage when needed. 

7. After you will create. You are not ready yet however. 

8. You will then be taken to a menu that you everytime before starting your machine. 
You should then go to settings, storage, and under controller, select the CD icon. 
Next to it, it should say empty. After selecting this, to the right that, it should say optical drive. Select the CD icon next to it. You will then select a ISO file you perviously downloaded.
This is the last main step, however you can customize the settings further.

9. Then at the top, you can select *Start*. It will open a window where it will show the OS booting up as it does on a new desktop. You will then have to set up and enter information.
After that, you should be ready to use the OS as you would any computer. 

You can set up as much virtual machines as you like, and they can range from any OS. The only limiations will be the ones you have set upon it!

