---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6 Semester 2"
date:   2022-04-09 11:23:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

# Blog 6 - Ranger File System

One important thing that every person can do with their personal computers is to have good file management. This remains true for any operating system can save you the hassel 
of finding a much needed file. One tool that can assist you with this on Linux is Ranger. Now what is Ranger? 
Ranger is a terminal file manager that makes navigating through directories, previewing, and editing files much easier. 
It uses vim controls, so anyone who has vim as their preferred text editior will have no problem using this program. Its three column layout is very easy on the eyes.
The left column holds the content of the parent directory, the middle houses the list of the current directory, and the right has the selected file or folder.
It is very similar to that of Mac OS X's "Finder", but now other Unix operating systems can benefit from this style. 
Images can be previewed in an ASCII format, Zip files will be shown as uncompressed and pdf files are converted into text. 
It also holds bookmarks, mouse support, and thumbnail/photo preview. 
Common directories such as etc, usr, dev, var, and much more have shortcuts for easier navigation.
This can be a much needed tool for going through and editing files. So much time can be saved. Not to mention it just looks cool to have. 
Now how to get this on your computer...


1. Make sure everything is up to date: $ sudo apt-get update
2. Install Ranger:  $ sudo apt-get install ranger caca-utils highlight atool w3m poppler-utils mediainfo

While long, it is to install other features that will better allow viewing various formats. 

3.$ ranger **FOLLOWED BY** $ Q

This is done to allow Ranger to set up the directory structure for its configuration files. 

4.Next copy its config files: $ ranger --copy-config=all

They will be located in ~/.config/ranger

5.To start Ranger: $ ranger

[GitHub Page](https://github.com/ranger/ranger)

Nav: 
-	j = Move down
-	k = Move up
-	h = Move to parent directory
-	gg = Go to the top of the list
-	G = Go to the bottom of the list
-	<ctrl>-f = Page down
-	<ctrl>-b = Page up
-	J = Page down 1/2 page
-	K = Page up 1/2 page
-	H = Go back through navigation history
-	L = Go forward through navigation history

Working with Files:
- i … Display the file
- r … Open file with the chosen program
- cw … Rename file
- dd .. Mark file for cut
- ud … Uncut
- p … Paste file
- yy .. Copy/yank file
- zh … Show hidden files
- <space> = Select current file
- :delete = Delete selected file
- :mkdir … Create a directory
- :touch … Create a file
- :rename … Rename file

