---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 17:40:45 -0700
categories: github update
---
For this class, CIT 480, I did not do too many hands on activities for this week. It was mainly lecture for the week. We focused on AWS and how we will be doing various labs there throughout the semester. I am excited fo rhtis as I really want to get certifications on AWS as I think it can really help my career. For my Computer Science 485 class, we are continuing my project. My group is to make a mobile app which improves the current traditional restaurant and store reward system. We are mainly focusing on the design aspect of the app by creating charts on how it will operate. While this does not deal directly with computer science or CIT, it is a very important aspect of creating a program. This is because no company will blindly begin to code something. Instead, they will do research, conduct interviews, draw/write mocks on it. Only then after will they begin to create the actual program. In my CIT 384 class (web designing), I had the most hands on out of any class. For my homework assignment, I mainly adjusted a CSS page to impact the look of a website. I also began a project where I started creating a basic HTML website. This also has a CSS page. Unlike the project however, this was made from scratch and it was very interesting to see how the CSS and HTML page interacts with eachother. I was also able to add more fonts via Google. This really helped improve the look and the feel for the website. I am not complete as of this blog but hope to be done with it at the beginning of next week. I also hope to start my Dockerfile and AWS labs by then. I look forward to resuming my project after this blog! 
