** Blog 0 Last Semester**

** How to delete a protected partition**

One of the most important things about working in Information Technology is managing storage. 
One way of doing this can be to create and edit different partitions on your drive. 
A partition is a way your computer's hard drive way of dividing it into different sections, mainly used to have different Operating systems on your computer or to have the appearance of multiple drives.
Once a partition is made it will be given a a letter to identify it with and the amount of storage available. 
You are able to visit the  Disk Management application located on Windows to edit, create, or delete partitions. 
However, sometimes you will have a partition that locks the ability to delete, shrink, or edit your partitions. 
This is due to the fact that when it was created, the software that created it, did it in such a way that prevents tampering with it. 
The solution to this problem is DISKPART which is a command line tool. 
Here are the steps to delete that protected partition:
1. Start CMD as admin.
2. Type "diskpart" into the prompt. 
3. Type the command "list disk". You should see all the disks listed for that computer.
4. Then you will type which disk you want to select. If we wanted to select disk 4, we would type "select disk 4". A star should now be next the disk when you list them. 
5. To to delete all contents on the disk, you will enter "clear" into the prompt.
6. You can now exit the CMD terminal. 
7. When you open the Disk Management application it will ask you to initalize the clean disk. Press "Ok"
8. The disk will now be cleaned and you can resume managing storage. 
Happy Disk Management! 
