---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8 Semester 2"
date:   2022-04-23 11:26:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

# Recipe Seach API

Today I will be talking about how to create a recipe search bar into your website. Once done correctly, your users will be given thousands of recipes.
This will be done using an API provided by Edamam. Edamam is a website that specializes in food, nutrition, and recipes. This is actually one of the three APIs currently available. 

Lets jump right in:
1. So to get started, you can go to their website, https://www.edamam.com/.
2. Sign Up or login into your account. 
3. After this click "API Developer Portal" at the top of the page.
4. Feel free to browse this section but once you are ready to continue, press "Get an API Key Now!" located in the ribbon
5. Press "Create a new application"
6. Select "Recipe Search API"
7. Select the plan you think will best be fit for your website/company. A developer plan will be free but limit you how the amount of call and data can be made. An enterprise plan will require a payment but gives you more accessibility.
8. Click "Create Application"
9. You will now see that on your dashboard, you have successfully created a new key. Click View. 
10. You can key your key, application ID, and edit your payment plan. We can now begin coding!

While I will not go over everything to put into your code, I will go over the essential and how to get started. 
1. In the HTML, the main thing you will need to create is a search bar which can be done using the "form" tags. It would also be a good idea to create a div class.
2. Most of the coding for the API will take place on a JavaScript page. Create one if you have not already and go to it. 
3. In the JavaScript, be sure to type the application ID and your key. This can be done by creating a "const" variable.
4. You should then create an event listener so that your website is aware of the user's input.
5. You should then create a function that can fetch the API. To do this you will need the website's link which is https://api.edamam.com/search, it can also be found in the documentation as well as its parameters. 
6. Two important parameters are your key, app ID, and amount of search results per search (amount based on your plan).
7. The last piece of code in the JavaScript is to generate the HTML. Be sure to use jQuery objects to receive the desired results on your website. 
8. Be sure to add CSS to make it look more clean, stylish, and user friendly.

Happy Coding!
