---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4"
date:   2020-10-01 20:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---
I had a very busy week for my college classes. For the beginning of the week I was working on a project where I had to create a basic website using html. I believe it turned out rather well. I found the most challenging aspect of creating my website was trying to create the CSS page in order to give my website a good design. I had most of my problems creating the top navigation bar. While it was easy to create the links the would transfer you from each of the pages, the look would be bunch up together. It also got more complicated when I added the main logo of the website that fits on top of the site. I managed to play around with the CSS code and finally go it to work. However, when I condense the window it would tend to look odd. This is because my website had a lack of mobile support. If I wanted to fix this I were to have add burgers to the code which caters to mobile devices. I also was assigned to unique elements and attributes. I was assigned to strike, blink, and acronym. For my attributes I was assigned to download, allow, and multiple. The command strike puts a line through the text. The command blink make the text flash, however it is outdated and not used as much anymore. Lastly, acronym is used when typing an acronym. While it does not change anything look wise, it will note it as special. For my attributes: download allows you to download a file, allow specifies a policy, and multiple allows the user to enter more than one value. I already have another assignment to create another website so all this information should come in handy.
