---
layout: post
title: "Blog 10"
date: 2020-11-12 21:03:43 -0700
categories: docker
---
Frameworks can be a very helpful tool as it eases the burden of coding as preexistent snippets are used to help build your program. No need to create a website from pure scratch. While there are many frameworks to use for specific purposes, today I will be talking about how to get started by creating a website or web application by installing Meteor JS. Meteor JS is a framework one would use mainly when creating a website or application using JavaScript. There are two main ways to download Meteor JS depending on if you are on a Linux/OSX or Windows device. Installing are the only differences between the two.  
To install Windows: 
1.	Open either PowerShell or the Command prompt as an administrator.
2.	Install Chocolatey (python may need to be installed prior to this)
3.	Once Chocolatey is installed, you can install meteor via chocolatey. Use the command ‘choco install meteor’.
4.	Done

To Install on Linux/OSX:
1.	Go to the terminal
2.	Use command curl https://install.meteor.com/ | sh.
3.	Done

Now that I have talked about how to install, I will now talk about how to start a new project and what to look for when opening a new project:
1.	Go to desired directory for organization
2.	Create a project by typing command ‘meteor create projectName’. 
3.	Cd into the whatever you have named the project. 
4.	Within this directory you will find a series of more directories and files are waiting for you. Two main directories to focus on are *client*, which holds code that will run on the client, and *server*, which is code that will run only on the server. Anything outside of these two directories will simply run on both.
5.	In the client directory you will find a CSS, HTML, and Javascript page where you can edit. Server will come with only one JavaScript. Feel free to add, edit, or remove files as you see fit. 
6.	To open the program, ensure you are in the directory in which the project it being kept and use the command ‘meteor’. You can then go to localhost:3000 on your web browser and view the program there.
7.	To exit the program preview, press Crtl+C.

 While Meteor JS has more to offer in creating a website/web application, this is how you download and get started with your project. Happy Coding!


