---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7 Semester 2"
date:   2022-04-16 11:23:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

# Blog 7 - Using Tmux

One of the most important things when working with any job is the ability to be organized. 
This remains true with jobs in Information Technology where you can be dealing with multiple tasks involving the terminal. 
One great tool that can help you organize specific tasks and be a better multi-tasker is a program called Tmux. 
Tmux is a program that is supported on most Unix based operating systems and is short for "Terminal Multiplexer".
What this means is that incase if you have to do multiple things on the terminal, you can have tabs or sections devoted in one terminal window. 
This is a lot cleaner and with memorizing the shortcuts, can be much faster than just opening multiple terminal windows. 
You can also save sessions so that whatever operation you were working on can stay running in the background. 
It will stay alive until you kill that tmux server. More on that later. 

Now, how to install:
Type 'sudo apt-get install tmux' (Linux) or 'brew install tmux' (MacOS)

To Run: Type 'tmux'

You will notice that a green bar at the bottom has appeared. You might notice it says something such as '0:bash*'. 
The left number signifies the window open (0 being the first one), 'bash' being the time of shell open, and the '*' meaning the window you are currently on.
You can open as much windows as your computer's memory will support. The right will give system information such as the time and date. This can be changed. 

Now to create a new section, or pane as they are officially called, you simply type 'Ctrl+ b %'. Note that 'Ctrl + B' is the perfered key in this program.
Now what we just did makes a pane to the right side, to make it look like a book so to speak. To make a pane at the bottom of the window type 'Ctrl + b' and ".
You switch between panes, you type 'Ctrl + b' and your direction key.
To create a new window you can type 'Ctrl + b c". You will notice at the bottom bar, it will assign a number to that window. 
To switch between two windows type 'Ctrl + b' and the number you which to switch to. 
To rename the window, you can type 'Ctrl + b ,' and type what you'd like it to be. 
To leave or exit a pane, simply type 'exit'.

Now for session which is the main selling point of tmux. 
As said earlier sessions can save your progress on whatever it is you were doing. For example, if you had ssh into a server and your connection dropped, you can open your session, ssh back into the server and no progress will be lost.
To detach a session, type 'Ctrl + b d' or 'Ctrl + b D' to give you an option of all the session you may wish to detach. To find a session, type 'tmux ls' and a list will appear.

There is of course more to tmux which you can check out but these are the most popular features of the service. Master tmux will help you be a much better system admin and make you look like a pro!

[tmux GitHub](https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki)

Happy Coding!

