---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10 Semester 2"
date:   2022-05-07 10:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

# Blog 10 - How to install Linux on a USB

Linux is a great operating system that is favorited by people in the Information Technology field. 
It allows you to easily access and manage users and files. 
However, to many it may not be the best operating system for casual use such as playing games, web browsing, and other common tasks. 
One solution is to do a dual boot on your computer. 
Another way to simply put it on a USB and have it boot from there. 
Today I will cover how exactly to set up Linux on a USB.


Requirements: A computer, USB (4GB min), Linux ISO file, and imaging program


Getting Started:
- Once you are log in to your computer, insert the USB into a port.
- Download the ISO file for your desired operating system. (Example Kali Linux, Ubuntu, etc.) Be sure to download the Live version of that OS. This can be found in the download page of the OS's website.
- You will then need to configure the USB using an imaging program. I highly recommend using [Etcher](https://www.etcher.net/) or [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/en_US/). 
- Go to their website and download the program. 
- When downloaded, select the USB you wish to use. Note that it will be reconfigured it so do not use a USB with any content you need. Also make sure the USB has enough memory or at least 4 GB.
- Then search and attach the ISO of the OS you want. It may be in your download folder.
- Then you can press the start/flash button to set up your USB.
- After you restart your computer and go into the BIOS. If you need help on how to access your BIOS, visit this website: [BIOS Help](https://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/bios-keys-to-access-your-firmware,5732.html)
- Search for Secure Boot and disable it.
- Go to boot order.
- Change the boot order so that your configured USB is the top option. Save settings.
- If you start your computer with the USB plugged in, you should boot the OS saved in that USB.
- If your USB is not plugged in, you should go to your second boot option. This should be your OS that you previously had on your computer. 


You should be good to go! Enjoy!!!
