---
layout: post
title: "blog 6"
date: 2020-10-15 11:03:43 -0700
categories: docker
---

One of the main assignments I did this week was the creation of my resume website for my CIT 384 class. While I have been working on this for a past couple of weeks, we had to update our websites to fulfill the professor’s requirements. One of the main things that we were required to change was the padding and margin in our website. We of course did this in the CSS page to get rid of any awkward gaps and make it look more professional.
 We also fixed the box model and added some columns within the page. We added a column narrow which we would add the width to 30 percent, float left, padding-right at 3 percent, and min-height 175 pixels. Then for our column wide we change it to width 70percent, float left, min-height 225 pixels. This was useful for managing how the text would appear in certain situations. For example, if we were to restore a window down, instead of having the text overlap with other elements, it would adjust appropriately to ensure that clean and professional look. 
Another requirement that we had to adjust was to create a navigation bar. However, this time we were unable to use the list tag. It was rather simple as I simply just used an “a” tag instead. Also, we were asked to have the nav bar follow you no matter where you scrolled. All I had to do to achieve this was to change it to a fixed position in the CSS. 
Another thing I had to do was to add icons in my website. In this instance I used it in the footer. Icons are different from images as they more resemble text because you can change their size, color, and have space in between so you can see the background color. Here I just went to fontawesome.com and signed up. After I was able to get a code to add to my HTML page that would reference the site. Then I would get another piece of code for my HTML which told what icons to add to the page. I would add it to were exactly I wanted it positioned. Then I was able to change the look in my CSS page. 
While all of these may seem like rather simple pieces to change in a website, it really adds to the look and professionalism of the page. I look forward to learning more!
