---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1 Semester 2"
date:   2022-02-26 20:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

**Blog 1 Last Semester**

**How to create rules in Windows Firewall**
A Firewall is an important way to protect your computer. It can help keep away from hackers, viruses, and unsafe websites with no precautions such as encryption between data. 
Firewalls and Antiviruses have created a reputation overtime for slowing down your computer as it takes away too many resouces. Today not all firewalls are like that. 
Windows has even provided their own version of firewall that comes standard in all Windows Operating Systems. Now most people may find it okay to just leave the settings as is. 
But perhaps you want to be even more secure and add a few rules of your own. Today we will be talking about to add inbound rules to your Windows Firewall to block and IP address.

**Adding an inbound IP Address Rule**
1. Go to the search bar located on the taskbar of your computer. 
2. Search Windows Firewall
3. Open Windows Defender Firewall 
4. Click on "Advanced Settings"
5. Click Inbound rules
6. Click Actions
7. Click New Rule
8. A new window will open, click "Custom"
9. Go to Scope
10. Under "Which remote IP addresses does this rule apply to?" Select these IP addresses
11. Click Add, and type in the IP addresses you wish to block. Press "Ok"
12. Click Next and Select "Block the connection"
13. It will have automatically checked Domain, Private, and Public. You can unclick as desired
14. Click Next. Add a name for the new rule. This can help you search for it later in the future
15. Click finish!

The new rule should be added and you should not be able to access it anymore. 
You can also return to Windows Firewall and edit or delete it if you would like. 
