---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-03 21:56:55 -0700
categories: github update
---

Today I will be talking about what I have learned over the past weeks for school. I am a senior currently and am taking three Computer Science/CIT classes. In this semester, I am taking classes CIT 384, CIT 480, and COMP 485. COMP 485 is dealing with Human-Computer Interaction. Lectures have not been too bad for the class as we have been learning how programs and devices should have a good interface with respect to the target user. CIT 384 is web development and hosting. I think that class compliments this class perfectly. So far here, we have mainly dealt with hosting but there we are designing web pages through HTML. While so far, the pages we have been working on have been basic, I anticipate that we get more advance as the semester continues. CIT 480 is CIT design one. So far, we have been working on setting up this blog you are reading. It was a difficult for me due to me being a Windows user. While creating the repository was simply, setting it up in the terminal was not. It did not seem likely that I can work on it in a Windows shell, so I quickly abandoned that idea. However, I did install Jekyll and Ruby on Windows right away. After that, I quickly installed Git Bash to serve as the shell but ran into more problems as it did not support commands like sudo, apt, and much more. I tried multiple ways to install them but had no luck. I decided to go to Ubuntu since I already had a Virtual Machine for it set up and since other classmates were doing the same. I encountered no problems besides installing Jekyll but was quickly able to resolve it. I look forward to updating this blog and keeping you posted throughout the semester! :D
