---
layout: post
title: "Blog 11"
date: 2020-11-19 21:03:43 -0700
categories: docker
---
# Blog 11
Today I will be talking about GitHub but a very specific part of GitHub. 
That would be adding, recieveing or editing pages to/from GitHub from someone that does not own the GitHub website.
Now why would someone want to do this? It is actually way more common than it sounds.
While yes, sometimes websites are behind one lone mastermind, often times people work in companies and groups in which someone who is the master simply approves pages to be published to the main website.
While you can share credientials to a GitHub account, this is not safe and not an ideal way of editing a GitHub site.
The simple answer to this is via SSH keys! Now how do you get someones key and what do you do with it? Well, let dive in. 

**NOTE: this tutuorial is meant to talk about adding keys to allow other users/computers to add/edit/update the GitHub site. NOT adding a key to shh-agent to avoiding entering credentials to push/pull files.**

Now first you need to find the SSH public key to the people who you want to allow to edit/add your GitHub pages.

**NOTE: When sharing keys, make sure you only share your public key, not your private!**
### Find an SSH Key: 
Note: Works both on Windows and Linux.

Finding an SSH key is easy. 
If you do not have a SSH key already you can quickly make one. 
1. Open CMD as admin for Windows. The terminal for Linux Users
2. Type the command *ssh-keygen*
3. Type yes
4. It will save into the folder *Users/your_username/.ssh*
5.  Open the *.ssh* folder and you can find your public key there. Be cautious to only share the public, not the private key.
6. You can simple copy and send it to the GitHub site manager. DONE!

### GitHub site manager:
1. Log onto GitHub
2. Go to personal settings
3. Go to section that says *SSH and GPG keys*
4. Click add new SSH key
5. Enter name to identify where or whose keys this is 
6. Add actual key you recieved from that computer and publish
7. DONE!

Now the added keys will now be associated with your account. That person/computer can now edit, update and view pages from that GitHub site without directly being logged into it!


