---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2 Semester 2"
date:   2022-03-05 20:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

**Blog 2 Last Semester**
**Using OSINT**

Today I will be talking about how to find information linked to a certain phone number.
Why might someone want to do this? 
This can be used for a variety of reasons including creating phishing attacks (not recommended), forensic investigations, or just simple trying to find out who keeps on bothering you. 
One thing to consider before diving into how to find this information is that phone numbers are formatted differently throughout the world. You can check more about that here!
[Formatting Phone Numbers](https://support.twilio.com/hc/en-us/articles/223183008-Formatting-International-Phone-Numbers)


Now to get started we will be using a tool called Phoneinfoga. We will mainly be using a BASH shell to do this activity. You will needed to download Python3 and Pip3 installed before this. 
1. Open you BASH Shell
2. Do a git clone: $ git clone https://github.com/sundowndev/PhoneInfoga
3. Change Directory: $ cd PhoneInfoga
4. Install Python and pip: $ python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
5. Creat a config file: $ cp config.example.py config.py
6. Check if everything has been done correctly: $ python3 phoneInfoga.py -v
7. To check command options type: $ python3 phoneInfoga.py -h
8. To check a phone number type (lets say you wanna look up (800)555-5555): $ python3 phoneInfoga.py -n 8005555555
9. Add extention for more information if desired: $ python3 phoneInfoga.py -n 8005555555 --osint

Here you can now see the location of origin, carrier, associated websites, timezone, if it is a VoIP, and more!

You may get blacklisted from Google but to fix this you can simply go to the link provided in the output. 
Press ALT+F12. Go to storage. Look for the cookie that says Google Abuse Exemption. Copy the value and paste it into the script on your terminal and you should be unbanned and can resume searching. 
