---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4 Semester 2"
date:   2022-03-26 20:01:45 -0700
categories: github update
---

**Blog 4 Last Semester**
**Downloading and Using Lynis**

Today I will be talking about how to download and how to use Lynis. Now what is Lynis?
Lynis is an application used for security in Unix-based operating systems such as Linux and MacOS.
Another great thing about this software is that it can be used for devices such as Raspberry Pis, IoT devices, and QNAP storage devices. 
It basically does a scan of your computer and helps with compliance testing and hardening your system.
Not to worry, it is an open source software.
It can also run with nearly no dependencies so you do not have to download any other software and you can keep your system clean. 
To find out more about Lynis and its documentation you can visit its GitHub page. 

Now how to actually download and run Lynis:
1. To download Lynis type: sudo wget 'https://github.com/CISOfy/lynis/archive/master.zip'
2. After you will see you have downloaded a zip file, you may unzip it by typing: sudo unzip master.zip
3. Then go into the new folder: cd lynis-master
4. If the permissions do not already allow Lynis to run, be sure to change the permissions now: sudo chmod +x lynis
5. After you should be ready to go, but if you want a test and to view all available option you can type: sudo ./lynis -h
6. To begin auditing your system type: sudo ./lynis audit system

The output can be pretty long as it is known to run over 200 tests but you can see it will give you a report and suggestions on how to increase security. 

If you wish to remove Lynis type: 
sudo rm -rf /path/to/lynis-master/
sudo rm -rf /path/to/master.zip

As you can see this can be a great tool for developers, admins, auditors, and testers. It is so easy to use that it should be run by anyone with a UNIX-based machine!
