---
layout: post
title:  "Blog One"
date:   2020-09-1 13:50:35 -0700
categories: github update
---

Today I will be talking about my next week in my CIT classes. For this class, I was able to download docker. I am familiar with this program as I used it during my sophomore classes with professors Steven Fitzgerald and Ilia Benson. It is a great program, especially for a Windows user like myself as I can use Bash and other Linux features that are not present here. While there are other options for Bash programs, this one is solid. For my CIT 384 class, I continued to learn more about HTML. The features that stood out to me this week was the ARIA roles in HTML pages. This was very intriguing because I have never heard of them. What I learned was that they are primarily used for blind people. They would use a browser extension and have the program read the different parts of the webpage. It makes sense why I previously did not know as I do not know anyone who is blind. This is a great feature for companies as it allows them to reach out to as much people as possible. I hope to expand my knowledge on this feature and perhaps add them to my projects for this semester and perhaps on websites as I start my career soon. For my Computer Science 485 class we had only one class due to Labor Day but we were assigned our project. It can be in any subject and any type of program. I got to know my teammates and currently are thinking of ideas on what to create, which we should finalize within the week. I am also thinking of ideas on other programs to create for my CIT 384 class and this one as well. While I have not created a team for those classes, I look forward to doing so soon. I also look forward to returning to Docker and learning more about AWS. This upcoming week is one that I am excited for!
